The Rafah crossing into Egypt
was briefly opened this morning
to allow the first convoy
of aid trucks to enter
the besieged Gaza Strip.
For the latest,
I'm joined by CNN's
Clarissa Ward in Cairo. Clarissa.
When all was said and done,
what was actually on those trucks
and what is needed but was not provided.
So, Michael, on those 20 trucks,
you basically had food, water, medicine,
all those things desperately needed.
But one thing that wasn't on
those trucks was fuel.
The Israelis have had
serious reservations
about allowing fuel to go in.
They're worried
it could be diverted by Hamas.
But the UN is really concerned
that fuel supplies are now down
to maybe two or three days
and that fuel is so desperately
needed to power generators,
which are the only things
that are allowing these hospitals
to continue to function to the extent
that they are still able to function.
Also important to note, 20
trucks is nothing
in the grand scheme of things
before this latest spasm of violence.
You would have 455 trucks a day
according to the UN, of aid
going into Gaza.
Now you've had two weeks.
Relentless bombardment.
No aid. Mass displacement.
Humanitarian catastrophe.
So 20 trucks, the WFP is saying,
could maybe meet the needs
of 30,000 people in terms of food.
And they need to reach about 900,000.
That's why you're hearing
full throated
calls from the U.N.,
other humanitarian organizations, saying
this needs to be a sustained,
continuous humanitarian corridor
and not a one off. Michael?
Clarissa, big picture,
among the reasons for Rafah
being such a choke point
is that at this stage
it's the only perimeter of Gaza
not sealed by Israel.
True.
That's right.
The Rafah border crossing is controlled
by the Egyptian side
and the Egyptians have said
they also don't want to have
a massive outpouring
of potentially hundreds
of thousands of Palestinians
into the Sinai Peninsula,
which is where that border crossing is.
Egypt has been fighting
an insurgency in the Sinai Peninsula
for many years now.
Egypt already has huge social problems,
poverty.
And so you've heard Egypt's
president say, listen,
the answer to this is not us taking
a million refugees
that we simply can't care for.
The answer to
this is agreeing upon
a sustained, continuous
humanitarian corridor,
establishing
humanitarian zones
inside of southern Gaza.
We heard Secretary of State
Antony Blinken talk about that, too.
But the issue is getting all sides
to come together
and agree on the conditions
that would allow for that.
And in the meantime, Michael, of course,
it sounds like a cliche,
but it could not be more true.
Every day,
every hour is so crucial
for the people inside of Gaza
who are not only facing
relentless bombardment.
But what the UN is calling
an unprecedented
humanitarian catastrophe
that is unfolding.
Clarissa Ward, thank you so much.